Knowledge by description.
Here's an objection that Russell
made to himself.
All great
philosophers see objections to
their own points of view, and I
hope you'll take that idea to
heart when you're writing
for this course as well. Always
consider objections to her own
point of view, even if you can't
answer the objections.
It will make your
position stronger to see the
objections to see the problems.
So what was Russell's objection?
It involved Julius Caesar.
We're going to talk a lot about
Julius Caesar. That's Russell's
example. I just stuck with it.
Russell says thus when, for
example, we make a statement
about Julius Caesar, it is plain
that Julius Caesar is not before
our minds, since we are not
acquainted with him. So
few of us are old enough to have
ever met Julius Caesar to have
perceived him to remember him,
and he certainly not an
objective self awareness. It
seems absolutely right here.
We're not acquainted with Julius
Caesar. Why is that a problem?
Well, actually I want to hand
that over to you. So what I'd
like you to do, please.
Ideally you're watching this
with somebody 90 seconds. What
actually is the objection here?
What is Russell objecting to and
what is the objection?
Go.
OK, so things are going well.
You've understood that I was
just asking you. What's Russell
objecting to and what's his
objection? And you've had a bit
of think about that, hopefully
even a discussion with a friend
that would be great. Well done
if you have. I'm really pleased
about that. OK, good, now I'm
going to tell you what I think
the answer to those questions
might be. One thing you will
get to know is that I'm not
always right.
So we can think about Julius
Caesar. We are not acquainted
with Julius Caesar. Therefore.
It seems to follow.
But this can't be true.
All our knowledge, both
knowledge of things and
knowledge of truths rest upon
acquaintance as its foundation.
You do know some things
about Julius Caesar.
(Well, I hope
you do. It’s so difficult to
find cultural references that
everyone gets. Julius Caesar
seems a pretty good
bet. If you don't know
things about Julius Caesar,
you may need to spend
some time with
Wikipedia or some other
reliable source information.)
So let’s assume you've been to
Wikipedia and you know something
about Julius Caesar.
He's from along time ago. That's
the key part for us. So you are not
acquainted with him. You know
some things about him. But what
Russell appears to be saying
here is that you can only know
things about him if you're
acquainted with him, and it
looks like one and two
contradict that, and so
Russell's principle would be
false. There's the objection,
objection, objection to this
claim under 3.
Brussels principle acquaintance.
And the objection is based on
the idea that we can know things
about Julius Caesar, although
none of us are equated with him.
So what did Russell say? Well,
he says we have in mind some
description of Julius Caesar,
the man who was assassinated on
the ides of March perhaps? Or
the founder of the Roman Empire?
Perhaps? Another idea I didn't
know. She checked. Wikipedia
says I should find out before I
do these things anyway, so.
Russell's idea is very simple.
There is this description and
in the case of something like
Julius Caesar with which were
not acquainted, but can
nevertheless think about.
It's a knowledge of the
description that allows us to
think about that thing.
Interesting idea. OK, so.
What's behind this then, is
Russell's theory is the idea
that there is actually not one,
but two ways of linking thoughts
to objects. There is not just
acquaintance, but there is also
knowledge by description.
Russell says when we know.
That the property or properties
in question belonged to one
object and no more. We are said
to have knowledge of that object
by description, whether or not
we're acquainted with the
object. So here's Russell
explaining the notion.
Of knowledge by description,
this is what Russell has in mind
for knowledge by description.
So if you're ever wondering to
yourself, you know, gosh, what
is this knowledge by description
business? This is the answer.
This is the answer. That's what
Russell says about knowledge by
description. And as I said,
that's contrasted with the
notion of acquaintance. So it's
possible for you to think about
things, either because you're
acquainted with them or.
Be cause. You have knowledge by
description of them, but those
two things are supposed to be
related. You see, acquaintance
is supposed to be the more
fundamental thing. And the
description stuff essentially
is supposed to kind of
leverage your knowledge.
Your acquaintance sorry. Let me
say that one more time the
acquaintance is supposed to be,
the more fundamental thing.
Knowledge by description
essentially supposed to
provide a way of kind of
leveraging your acquaintance
to enable you to think about a
wider set of things. That's
that's the idea that Russell
has, and that's why all of
this turns out to be
compatible with the principle
of acquaintance.
That's right. What was wrong
with this objection? That's a
good reply to the objection from
Julius Caesar. What was wrong
with this objection? That's
actually a very good question.
Why don't you turn to the people
that you're watching this with?
I hope you're watching it with
some people. If you are, that's
how you work best in 90 seconds.
What is wrong with this
objection to Russell's
principle of acquaintance whi?
Is this not actually a good
objection even though it
should seem like 190 seconds
go?
So why is this apparently but
not actually a good objection to
Russell's principle of
acquaintance? Well,
here's what I think.
What we gotta do is reject the
idea that the third thing
follows from the first 2, so
we're not rejecting the first
thing. We're not rejecting the
second thing. We're accepting.
Both of those were embracing
them. We were saying that the
third thing doesn't follow from
the first 2. One is that.
It's big cause the principle
acquaintance doesn't really say
you can only think about things
with which you're acquainted. I
like that as a first draft. It's
kind of simple, right? You can
only think about things which
are acquainted. It would be
great if that were true. It
would be very simple what it
actually says is that
acquaintance is fundamental to
being able to think about things
at all. But there is this way of
leveraging. Leveraging, I'm
not sure there is this way of
leveraging your acquaintance.
Using descriptions that gives
you knowledge by descriptions
and so although at bottom it
comes right down to
acquaintance everything
Russell says rests upon
acquaintance as its
foundation.
Nevertheless, you don't have to
be acquainted with things in
order to think about them. So it
doesn't follow the Brussels
principle is false. Just because
you can think about things like
Julius Caesar with which are not
acquainted. That's very good. So
where are we? In summary.
We know what Rustles Princeville
acquaintances we understand the
objection or apparent objection
to that principle.
From the case of Julius Caesar.
And we understand the reply
which involves introducing this
notion of knowledge by
description. So that's actually
quite a big chunk of work that
we've just done. Well done us.